src/content/work/atproto-projects.md, before:

---
title: "AT Protocol Projects"
type: "delivery"
lede: "Interconnected suite of decentralized data infrastructure and public goods experiments."
summary: "A collection of projects exploring AT Protocol, decentralized data, and public infrastructure—including AI benchmarks, data tools, and experimental interfaces."
itemType: "project"
systemType: "Decentralized infrastructure + experimental platforms"
outcome: "Multiple production services serving public data and experimental tooling"
order: 105
featured: true
tags: ["AT Protocol", "Decentralized", "Open Source", "Public Goods"]
role: "Designer, Developer, Architect"
timeline: "2024 - Present"
externalUrl: "https://heypbj.xyz"
hero:
  image: "/img/heypbj.xyz.png"
---

## Overview

This is a suite of interconnected projects exploring decentralized protocols, public data infrastructure, and experimental interfaces. All projects share common principles:

- **Public by default**: Open data, transparent methods
- **Decentralized where possible**: Using AT Protocol and distributed architectures
- **Experimental posture**: Rapid iteration, learning in public
- **No tracking**: Privacy-first, minimal data collection

---

## Projects in This Suite

### [HeyPBJ — Structured Matching Platform](/work/heypbj-matching-platform)
A structured-matching platform that treats dating and social discovery as a routing problem rather than a feed. Uses declared preferences, weighted signals, and compatibility metrics to place people into small cohorts ("rundles") where interaction happens through guided prompts instead of endless swiping. Explores constraint-based matching, transparent criteria, and small-group dynamics for more humane online connections.

**Live at:** [heypbj.xyz](https://heypbj.xyz)

### [Glowrm — Trust & Relationship Layer](/work/glowrm-trust-layer)
Trust and relationship-layer prototype for AT Protocol environments. Provides lightweight infrastructure for signaling credibility, tracking interaction history, and routing trust between participants and communities. Focuses on how identity, reputation, and consent travel across networks without collapsing into a single platform's control. Experiments with portable trust primitives—verification, vouching, and context establishment when moving between spaces.

**Live at:** [glowrm.tech](https://glowrm.tech)

### [Leafroll — Professional Identity Layer](/work/leafroll-professional-identity)
Lightweight professional-identity and portfolio system that rethinks how people present work, skills, and trajectory outside traditional résumé formats. Treats profiles as living documents composed of signals, artifacts, and endorsements that can be rearranged depending on context—collaboration, hiring, or discovery. Experiments with modular profiles, structured metadata, and social proof that can travel across networks as dynamic, composable records.

**Live at:** [leafroll.fun](https://leafroll.fun)

---

## Shared Architecture Patterns

**AT Protocol Foundation:**
- Decentralized identity (users own their data)
- User-controlled data repositories
- Composable schemas and services
- Portable credentials and reputation

**Multiple Deployment Strategies:**
- **Progressive web apps** (HeyPBJ, Leafroll): Client-side rendering with offline support
- **Infrastructure services** (Glowrm): Trust/verification APIs for other platforms
- All prioritize **user control** and **data portability**

**Transparency & Privacy First:**
- No tracking or analytics
- Published methodology and data sources
- AI usage disclosure where applicable
- User-controlled permissions and consent
- Cryptographic verification for trust claims

---

## Why AT Protocol?

AT Protocol provides:
- **Decentralized identity**: Users own their data and can move between services
- **Composable data**: Repositories can reference and build on each other
- **Public infrastructure**: Open protocols enable innovation without permission

These projects explore how to build public goods on decentralized foundations—proving patterns for data infrastructure, benchmarking, and experimental interfaces that don't require centralized platforms.

---

## What This Demonstrates

- **Decentralized architecture**: Building connected services without centralized control or platform lock-in
- **Composable infrastructure**: Services that reference and build on each other (HeyPBJ uses Glowrm, Leafroll integrates with both)
- **Portable identity & reputation**: Credentials, trust, and professional history that travel across networks
- **Constraint-based design**: How limits and structure can produce better outcomes than infinite choice (HeyPBJ)
- **Trust primitives**: Building verification, vouching, and consent infrastructure for decentralized spaces (Glowrm)
- **Privacy-first design**: Proving you can build useful services without surveillance or tracking
- **Protocol thinking**: Designing for interoperability and composability from the start
- **Experimental development**: Rapid iteration with transparent methodology, learning in public

Commit message:

Reframe site for founder-executive positioning: trust infrastructure and governance
Complete reframing of site messaging from practitioner/delivery language to
founder-executive positioning focused on trust infrastructure, governance
primitives, and decision-layer architecture for AI-mediated institutions.

Key changes:
- Homepage hero: "I build trust infrastructure for AI-mediated institutions"
- About page: Reframed entire bio to focus on decision-layer architecture,
  trust instrumentation, and governance primitives
- Projects intro: Established connective thread across Occupant (applied
  infrastructure), State Capacity AI (frameworks/primitives), and AT Protocol
  work (public mechanics demonstrations)
- Project descriptions: Updated Occupant, State Capacity AI, Glowrm, HeyPBJ,
  Leafroll, AT Protocol Projects, and 18F work with governance/decision-layer
  framing
- Removed delivery/cost-reduction/practitioner language throughout
- Updated project type labels and media appearance descriptions
- Meta description updated to reflect founder positioning

Tone now signals: "I build the trust and decision infrastructure for
AI-mediated institutions. I create the frameworks and instruments that let
organizations govern automated systems with confidence."

https://claude.ai/code/session_0196sRxZ6SZFJc83giA1189v

src/content/work/atproto-projects.md, after:

---
title: "AT Protocol Projects"
type: "concept"
lede: "Demonstrations of decision systems, authority models, and trust scaffolding operating in public environments where governance must be visible and contestable."
summary: "Applied institutional design exploring how decision-layer architecture, trust infrastructure, and accountability mechanisms function in decentralized public contexts—showing governance primitives under operational load."
itemType: "project"
systemType: "Institutional design + public mechanics"
outcome: "Production systems demonstrating trust infrastructure, authority models, and decision architecture in decentralized environments"
order: 105
featured: true
tags: ["Institutional Design", "Trust Infrastructure", "Public Mechanics", "Authority Models", "AT Protocol"]
role: "Founder, Architect"
timeline: "2024 - Present"
externalUrl: "https://heypbj.xyz"
hero:
  image: "/img/heypbj.xyz.png"
---

## Institutional Design in Public Environments

This suite of projects demonstrates how decision systems, authority models, and trust infrastructure operate when they must be publicly visible, auditable, and contestable. Built on AT Protocol's decentralized foundation, these systems show what governance architecture looks like in environments where no central authority can dictate outcomes—where accountability must be designed into the system itself.

The work explores a core challenge: **how do you build governable systems in public contexts?** Not user-facing services, but the trust scaffolding and decision-layer architecture that makes public systems legible, accountable, and safe to operate.

Shared governance principles across all projects:

- **Transparency as infrastructure**: Decision logic, data sources, and authority models must be publicly auditable
- **Decentralized accountability**: Trust and governance mechanisms that function without centralized control
- **Contestability by design**: Users can challenge, verify, and audit system behavior
- **No surveillance**: Privacy-preserving architecture that doesn't require data extraction to function

---

## Projects in This Suite

### [HeyPBJ — Structured Matching Platform](/work/heypbj-matching-platform)
A structured-matching platform that treats dating and social discovery as a routing problem rather than a feed. Uses declared preferences, weighted signals, and compatibility metrics to place people into small cohorts ("rundles") where interaction happens through guided prompts instead of endless swiping. Explores constraint-based matching, transparent criteria, and small-group dynamics for more humane online connections.

**Live at:** [heypbj.xyz](https://heypbj.xyz)

### [Glowrm — Trust & Relationship Layer](/work/glowrm-trust-layer)
Trust infrastructure demonstrating how governance primitives—verification, credentialing, accountability—function in decentralized environments where no platform controls authority. Shows how trust routing, reputation portability, and consent enforcement operate as decision-layer architecture rather than centralized platform features. Establishes the governance models needed when authority must be distributed but accountability still matters.

**Live at:** [glowrm.tech](https://glowrm.tech)

### [Leafroll — Professional Identity Layer](/work/leafroll-professional-identity)
Lightweight professional-identity and portfolio system that rethinks how people present work, skills, and trajectory outside traditional résumé formats. Treats profiles as living documents composed of signals, artifacts, and endorsements that can be rearranged depending on context—collaboration, hiring, or discovery. Experiments with modular profiles, structured metadata, and social proof that can travel across networks as dynamic, composable records.

**Live at:** [leafroll.fun](https://leafroll.fun)

---

## Shared Architecture Patterns

**AT Protocol Foundation:**
- Decentralized identity (users own their data)
- User-controlled data repositories
- Composable schemas and services
- Portable credentials and reputation

**Multiple Deployment Strategies:**
- **Progressive web apps** (HeyPBJ, Leafroll): Client-side rendering with offline support
- **Infrastructure services** (Glowrm): Trust/verification APIs for other platforms
- All prioritize **user control** and **data portability**

**Transparency & Privacy First:**
- No tracking or analytics
- Published methodology and data sources
- AI usage disclosure where applicable
- User-controlled permissions and consent
- Cryptographic verification for trust claims

---

## Why AT Protocol?

AT Protocol provides:
- **Decentralized identity**: Users own their data and can move between services
- **Composable data**: Repositories can reference and build on each other
- **Public infrastructure**: Open protocols enable innovation without permission

These projects explore how to build public goods on decentralized foundations—proving patterns for data infrastructure, benchmarking, and experimental interfaces that don't require centralized platforms.

---

## What This Demonstrates

- **Institutional design for public contexts**: How decision systems, authority models, and trust scaffolding function when governance must be publicly visible and contestable
- **Public mechanics at scale**: Demonstrating the choreography between technical architecture, authority delegation, and accountability in environments where centralized control isn't an option
- **Trust infrastructure as governance**: Building the primitives—verification, reputation routing, consent enforcement—that let decentralized systems operate with institutional accountability
- **Authority models without platforms**: Showing how credibility, oversight, and enforcement function when distributed across network participants rather than controlled centrally
- **Decision-layer architecture**: Establishing how judgment routing, consequence design, and override mechanisms operate in public environments where every decision must be auditable
- **Composable governance primitives**: Creating infrastructure that services build on (HeyPBJ uses Glowrm, Leafroll integrates trust routing) rather than implementing governance in silos
