src/content/work/glowrm-trust-layer.md, before:

---
title: "Glowrm — Trust & Relationship Layer"
type: "delivery"
lede: "Portable trust primitives for decentralized social environments—how identity, reputation, and consent travel across networks."
summary: "A trust and relationship-layer prototype for AT Protocol environments, providing lightweight infrastructure for signaling credibility, tracking interaction history, and routing trust between participants and communities."
itemType: "project"
systemType: "Trust infrastructure + decentralized moderation"
outcome: "Working prototype exploring portable trust, reputation, and consent mechanisms"
order: 109
featured: true
tags: ["AT Protocol", "Trust", "Reputation", "Decentralized Identity", "Moderation"]
role: "Designer, Developer, Architect"
timeline: "2024 - Present"
externalUrl: "https://glowrm.tech"
parent: "atproto-projects"
---

## The Core Problem

Social platforms collapse trust, identity, and moderation into a single service's control. When you move to a new platform, you start from zero:
- No reputation history
- No verification credentials
- No interaction context
- No trust signals from previous communities

Worse, there's no way to **route trust** between spaces. A community vouching for you in one place doesn't travel. References and reputation are trapped in silos.

---

## What Glowrm Does

Glowrm is **infrastructure for trust that travels**. It provides lightweight primitives for:

### 1. Identity Verification
- Portable credentials (not locked to one platform)
- Multi-source verification (domain ownership, social proof, community attestations)
- Cryptographic signatures for tamper-proof claims
- Granular disclosure (prove attributes without revealing data)

### 2. Reputation Tracking
- Interaction history that users control
- Community vouches and endorsements
- Negative signals (blocks, reports) with context
- Reputation scores across dimensions (reliability, expertise, civility)

### 3. Consent & Boundaries
- Persistent preference declarations (communication style, boundaries)
- Context-aware consent (different rules for different spaces)
- Revocable permissions (pull access back when trust breaks)
- Transparent data flows (who sees what, when, why)

### 4. Trust Routing
- How do vouches from one community inform decisions in another?
- Can endorsements be weighted by relationship strength?
- How do negative signals propagate without becoming permanent scarlet letters?
- What happens when trust networks conflict?

---

## Design Principles

### Portable, Not Platform-Locked
Trust data lives with the **user**, not the platform. You can take your reputation, credentials, and interaction history anywhere AT Protocol is supported.

### Granular & Context-Aware
Trust isn't binary. Glowrm supports:
- Different trust levels for different contexts
- Relationship-specific permissions
- Time-bounded credentials
- Conditional visibility

### Transparent & Auditable
Users can see:
- Who vouched for someone (and why)
- What data is being shared (and with whom)
- How reputation scores are calculated
- When/why trust signals changed

### User-Controlled
You decide:
- What credentials to share
- Which communities can vouch for you
- How your reputation travels
- When to revoke access

---

## Use Cases

### Moderation Tooling
Communities can:
- Check if a new member has community vouches
- See interaction history across networks
- Route trust signals from allied spaces
- Apply graduated moderation based on reputation

**Example:** A forum checks if applicants have endorsements from trusted communities, reducing cold-start spam/harassment.

### Safe Onboarding
New platforms can:
- Accept portable verification instead of starting from zero
- Trust vouches from established networks
- Apply reputation-based permissions (e.g., new users can read but not post until vouched)

**Example:** A dating app (like HeyPBJ) uses Glowrm credentials to verify identity and check for safety flags across networks.

### Consent Management
Users can:
- Declare communication preferences that follow them
- Set boundaries that platforms must respect
- Revoke permissions if trust breaks
- See who accessed their data and when

**Example:** A user sets "no unsolicited DMs" as a persistent preference; compatible platforms enforce this automatically.

### Trust-Based Discovery
Matching/routing systems can:
- Weight compatibility by mutual connections
- Use vouches as signals for quality
- Route people toward communities where they're already trusted
- Reduce cold-start problems in social discovery

**Example:** HeyPBJ uses Glowrm trust scores to prioritize matches where mutual friends have vouched for both parties.

---

## Technical Architecture

**AT Protocol Foundation:**
- Decentralized identity (DIDs)
- User-controlled data repositories
- Cryptographic signatures for attestations
- Composable schemas for trust primitives

**Trust Primitives (Data Structures):**
- **Credentials:** Portable identity claims (verified email, domain ownership, community membership)
- **Attestations:** Third-party vouches (endorsements, references, community approvals)
- **Interaction Records:** Encrypted logs of connection history
- **Reputation Scores:** Multi-dimensional trust metrics
- **Consent Declarations:** Portable preference/boundary records

**Services:**
- **Verification Service:** Cryptographically validate credentials
- **Reputation Aggregator:** Compute trust scores from multiple sources
- **Trust Router:** Determine how signals propagate between networks
- **Consent Enforcer:** Check if actions respect declared boundaries

**Privacy Layer:**
- Zero-knowledge proofs for selective disclosure
- Encrypted interaction logs (only participants can decrypt)
- Relationship-scoped visibility (different people see different data)
- Revocable access controls

---

## How It Works: Example Flow

1. **User joins new community:**
   - Presents AT Protocol DID (decentralized identity)
   - Shares relevant credentials (e.g., "verified member of X community since 2023")
   - Community checks Glowrm for reputation/vouches

2. **Community evaluates trust:**
   - Sees endorsements from allied spaces
   - Checks interaction history for red flags
   - Applies graduated permissions based on trust level
   - Grants access or requests additional verification

3. **Trust signals accumulate:**
   - As user interacts, reputation updates
   - Community members can vouch/endorse
   - Positive signals increase access/privileges
   - Negative signals trigger review/moderation

4. **User moves to another space:**
   - Brings full trust history (portable)
   - New community can reference previous vouches
   - User controls what's disclosed
   - Trust doesn't restart from zero

---

## Research Questions

Glowrm explores:
- Can **portable reputation** reduce cold-start problems without creating permanent records?
- How do **trust networks** interact when they have conflicting signals?
- What **consent primitives** are needed for decentralized social spaces?
- Can **cryptographic proofs** enable privacy-preserving verification?
- How do we prevent **reputation marketplaces** or gaming?

---

## Integration with Other Projects

### HeyPBJ (Matching Platform)
Uses Glowrm for:
- Identity verification in dating/social rundles
- Safety checks (cross-network reputation)
- Trust-weighted compatibility scoring
- Consent enforcement (communication preferences)

### Leafroll (Professional Identity)
Uses Glowrm for:
- Endorsement verification (are these references real?)
- Skill attestations from collaborators
- Trust routing for hiring/collaboration
- Reputation portability across professional networks

### Occupant (AI Benchmarks)
Could use Glowrm for:
- Contributor verification (who's submitting data?)
- Community moderation (trusted contributors vs. spam)
- Peer review attestations

---

## Part of the AT Protocol Suite

Glowrm is one of several interconnected projects exploring decentralized infrastructure:
- [AT Protocol Projects](/work/atproto-projects) (Parent project)
- [HeyPBJ](/work/heypbj-matching-platform) (Matching platform)
- [Leafroll](/work/leafroll-professional-identity) (Professional identity)
- [Occupant](/work/occupant-ai-benchmarks) (Public data infrastructure)

---

## What This Demonstrates

- **Decentralized trust infrastructure**: Building reputation systems that don't require centralized platforms
- **Portable identity primitives**: Proving credentials and reputation can travel across networks
- **Privacy-preserving verification**: Using cryptography to prove claims without revealing data
- **Context-aware consent**: Designing granular permission systems for decentralized spaces
- **Trust routing**: Solving how vouches and reputation propagate between communities
- **Moderation tooling**: Creating safety infrastructure that works across platforms
- **User sovereignty**: Giving people control over their trust data and how it's shared

Commit message:

Reframe site for founder-executive positioning: trust infrastructure and governance
Complete reframing of site messaging from practitioner/delivery language to
founder-executive positioning focused on trust infrastructure, governance
primitives, and decision-layer architecture for AI-mediated institutions.

Key changes:
- Homepage hero: "I build trust infrastructure for AI-mediated institutions"
- About page: Reframed entire bio to focus on decision-layer architecture,
  trust instrumentation, and governance primitives
- Projects intro: Established connective thread across Occupant (applied
  infrastructure), State Capacity AI (frameworks/primitives), and AT Protocol
  work (public mechanics demonstrations)
- Project descriptions: Updated Occupant, State Capacity AI, Glowrm, HeyPBJ,
  Leafroll, AT Protocol Projects, and 18F work with governance/decision-layer
  framing
- Removed delivery/cost-reduction/practitioner language throughout
- Updated project type labels and media appearance descriptions
- Meta description updated to reflect founder positioning

Tone now signals: "I build the trust and decision infrastructure for
AI-mediated institutions. I create the frameworks and instruments that let
organizations govern automated systems with confidence."

https://claude.ai/code/session_0196sRxZ6SZFJc83giA1189v

src/content/work/glowrm-trust-layer.md, after:

---
title: "Glowrm — Trust & Relationship Layer"
type: "concept"
lede: "Trust infrastructure for decentralized environments—governance primitives for authority, credentialing, and accountability when platforms can't be the arbiter."
summary: "Decision-layer infrastructure for distributed social systems. Provides the trust primitives—verification, reputation routing, consent enforcement—that let decentralized environments operate with accountability when no central authority can govern behavior."
itemType: "project"
systemType: "Trust infrastructure + governance primitives"
outcome: "Operational trust architecture demonstrating how authority and accountability function in decentralized contexts"
order: 109
featured: true
tags: ["Trust Infrastructure", "Governance Primitives", "Decentralized Systems", "Authority Models", "AT Protocol"]
role: "Founder, Architect"
timeline: "2024 - Present"
externalUrl: "https://glowrm.tech"
parent: "atproto-projects"
---

## The Governance Challenge

Decentralized systems promise user sovereignty but lack governance infrastructure. When authority can't be centralized, how do communities establish credibility, enforce accountability, or route trust across network boundaries? Platforms solve this by controlling identity, moderation, and reputation—but that control is exactly what decentralization seeks to escape.

The core problem: **governance primitives don't exist for environments where no single entity can be the arbiter**. Without trust infrastructure, decentralized spaces either collapse into chaos or recreate centralized control structures.

---

## Trust Infrastructure for Decentralized Governance

Glowrm builds the governance primitives that let decentralized environments operate with accountability. It's not a platform—it's the decision-layer architecture that enables communities to establish authority, verify claims, and route trust when no central entity controls the system.

### 1. Identity Verification
- Portable credentials (not locked to one platform)
- Multi-source verification (domain ownership, social proof, community attestations)
- Cryptographic signatures for tamper-proof claims
- Granular disclosure (prove attributes without revealing data)

### 2. Reputation Tracking
- Interaction history that users control
- Community vouches and endorsements
- Negative signals (blocks, reports) with context
- Reputation scores across dimensions (reliability, expertise, civility)

### 3. Consent & Boundaries
- Persistent preference declarations (communication style, boundaries)
- Context-aware consent (different rules for different spaces)
- Revocable permissions (pull access back when trust breaks)
- Transparent data flows (who sees what, when, why)

### 4. Trust Routing
- How do vouches from one community inform decisions in another?
- Can endorsements be weighted by relationship strength?
- How do negative signals propagate without becoming permanent scarlet letters?
- What happens when trust networks conflict?

---

## Design Principles

### Portable, Not Platform-Locked
Trust data lives with the **user**, not the platform. You can take your reputation, credentials, and interaction history anywhere AT Protocol is supported.

### Granular & Context-Aware
Trust isn't binary. Glowrm supports:
- Different trust levels for different contexts
- Relationship-specific permissions
- Time-bounded credentials
- Conditional visibility

### Transparent & Auditable
Users can see:
- Who vouched for someone (and why)
- What data is being shared (and with whom)
- How reputation scores are calculated
- When/why trust signals changed

### User-Controlled
You decide:
- What credentials to share
- Which communities can vouch for you
- How your reputation travels
- When to revoke access

---

## Use Cases

### Moderation Tooling
Communities can:
- Check if a new member has community vouches
- See interaction history across networks
- Route trust signals from allied spaces
- Apply graduated moderation based on reputation

**Example:** A forum checks if applicants have endorsements from trusted communities, reducing cold-start spam/harassment.

### Safe Onboarding
New platforms can:
- Accept portable verification instead of starting from zero
- Trust vouches from established networks
- Apply reputation-based permissions (e.g., new users can read but not post until vouched)

**Example:** A dating app (like HeyPBJ) uses Glowrm credentials to verify identity and check for safety flags across networks.

### Consent Management
Users can:
- Declare communication preferences that follow them
- Set boundaries that platforms must respect
- Revoke permissions if trust breaks
- See who accessed their data and when

**Example:** A user sets "no unsolicited DMs" as a persistent preference; compatible platforms enforce this automatically.

### Trust-Based Discovery
Matching/routing systems can:
- Weight compatibility by mutual connections
- Use vouches as signals for quality
- Route people toward communities where they're already trusted
- Reduce cold-start problems in social discovery

**Example:** HeyPBJ uses Glowrm trust scores to prioritize matches where mutual friends have vouched for both parties.

---

## Technical Architecture

**AT Protocol Foundation:**
- Decentralized identity (DIDs)
- User-controlled data repositories
- Cryptographic signatures for attestations
- Composable schemas for trust primitives

**Trust Primitives (Data Structures):**
- **Credentials:** Portable identity claims (verified email, domain ownership, community membership)
- **Attestations:** Third-party vouches (endorsements, references, community approvals)
- **Interaction Records:** Encrypted logs of connection history
- **Reputation Scores:** Multi-dimensional trust metrics
- **Consent Declarations:** Portable preference/boundary records

**Services:**
- **Verification Service:** Cryptographically validate credentials
- **Reputation Aggregator:** Compute trust scores from multiple sources
- **Trust Router:** Determine how signals propagate between networks
- **Consent Enforcer:** Check if actions respect declared boundaries

**Privacy Layer:**
- Zero-knowledge proofs for selective disclosure
- Encrypted interaction logs (only participants can decrypt)
- Relationship-scoped visibility (different people see different data)
- Revocable access controls

---

## How It Works: Example Flow

1. **User joins new community:**
   - Presents AT Protocol DID (decentralized identity)
   - Shares relevant credentials (e.g., "verified member of X community since 2023")
   - Community checks Glowrm for reputation/vouches

2. **Community evaluates trust:**
   - Sees endorsements from allied spaces
   - Checks interaction history for red flags
   - Applies graduated permissions based on trust level
   - Grants access or requests additional verification

3. **Trust signals accumulate:**
   - As user interacts, reputation updates
   - Community members can vouch/endorse
   - Positive signals increase access/privileges
   - Negative signals trigger review/moderation

4. **User moves to another space:**
   - Brings full trust history (portable)
   - New community can reference previous vouches
   - User controls what's disclosed
   - Trust doesn't restart from zero

---

## Research Questions

Glowrm explores:
- Can **portable reputation** reduce cold-start problems without creating permanent records?
- How do **trust networks** interact when they have conflicting signals?
- What **consent primitives** are needed for decentralized social spaces?
- Can **cryptographic proofs** enable privacy-preserving verification?
- How do we prevent **reputation marketplaces** or gaming?

---

## Integration with Other Projects

### HeyPBJ (Matching Platform)
Uses Glowrm for:
- Identity verification in dating/social rundles
- Safety checks (cross-network reputation)
- Trust-weighted compatibility scoring
- Consent enforcement (communication preferences)

### Leafroll (Professional Identity)
Uses Glowrm for:
- Endorsement verification (are these references real?)
- Skill attestations from collaborators
- Trust routing for hiring/collaboration
- Reputation portability across professional networks

### Occupant (AI Benchmarks)
Could use Glowrm for:
- Contributor verification (who's submitting data?)
- Community moderation (trusted contributors vs. spam)
- Peer review attestations

---

## Part of the AT Protocol Suite

Glowrm is one of several interconnected projects exploring decentralized infrastructure:
- [AT Protocol Projects](/work/atproto-projects) (Parent project)
- [HeyPBJ](/work/heypbj-matching-platform) (Matching platform)
- [Leafroll](/work/leafroll-professional-identity) (Professional identity)
- [Occupant](/work/occupant-ai-benchmarks) (Public data infrastructure)

---

## What This Demonstrates

- **Governance primitives for decentralized systems**: Building the trust infrastructure that lets distributed environments operate with accountability
- **Authority models without centralization**: Demonstrating how credibility, verification, and enforcement function when no platform controls the system
- **Trust routing as decision architecture**: Establishing how reputation and vouching propagate across network boundaries without collapsing into centralized control
- **Portable governance**: Creating accountability mechanisms that travel with users rather than being locked to platforms
- **Privacy-preserving trust**: Using cryptography to enable verification and consent enforcement while maintaining user sovereignty
- **Institutional design for public environments**: Showing how decision systems can be made legible, auditable, and contestable in decentralized contexts
